Disney already dominates animated
fairytales can they do the same with
live-action you're watching beyond the
trailers review of Oz the great and
powerful
I've waited for you to come set things
right
me
back in 2010 Disney single-handedly put
the adult live action fairy tale genre
on the map with Tim Burton's Alice in
Wonderland a sequel to the classic story
it grossed over a billion dollars
worldwide and launched a slew of
copycats as other Studios tried to
repeat Disney's success but so far no
such luck with Red Riding Hood Mirror
Mirror Hansel and Gretel and Jack the
giant slayer all proven to be not poison
apples but box-office poison the only
real hit has been Universal Snow White
in the Huntsman however that flicks
still pulled in less than half of what
Alice did and now producer Joe Roth is
hoping to prove his first success wasn't
a fluke as he delivers our prequel to
The Wizard of Oz which matches Alice
from the release date to the posters to
being available in IMAX 3d Roth had even
wanted his Mad Hatter Johnny Depp to
play the wizard and when that fell
through when after Robert Downey jr. but
he ended up having to settle for second
right loopiness with James Franco who's
captured the public's attention if not
their box office dollars come on we all
know it was Andy Serkis who got butts in
the seats for Rise of the Planet of the
Apes but the casting of Oz is a gamble
even beyond franco's michelle williams
rachel weisz and Mila Kunis have yet to
prove they can bring in an audience
either that leaves the heavy lifting to
Sam Raimi who's looking for redemption
after seeing the spider-man franchise
not only survive without him but thrive
Tim Burton had also lost Batman but had
hits afterwards while Raimi has not but
besides talent Disney has one other
hurdle when it comes to Oz and that's
they don't have total creative control
over the property Warner Brothers still
owns the rights to their 1939 classic
and universals behind the Broadway
juggernaut wicked which they are still
planning to turn into a film themselves
but if oz doesn't work out Disney is
already in post-production for
Maleficent or Angelina Jolie tries to
add some depth to the Sleeping Beauty
villain and Emma Watson isn't talks for
their reimagining of Cinderella so will
Oz make Disney feel a little better
about their pending Maleficent in
Cinderella flicks or will it be another
Return to Oz for the studio sorry Return
to Oz fans but that movie didn't score
with critics or audiences bringing it
only half of its budget causing Disney
to put their newly purchased oz rights
on ice until well now so I'm going to
preface this review by letting you know
that I really enjoyed Tim Burton's Alice
in Wonderland I went to see that film in
IMAX 3d I went on a weeknight
cuz I very low expectations for the film
and I was really impressed with what I
saw and I had the exact same situation
here I didn't get to see it in IMAX but
I did see it in 3d but I went in
thinking this was going to be just a
horrible movie and I just can't tell you
how pleasantly surprised I was it does
have Sam Raimi elements but I will say
that it's very obvious that I think Joe
Roth the producer sat Raimi down and
said let's take a hard look at Alice and
why it worked and try to duplicate that
I mean I think there's still some Sam
Raimi flair but this is very much from
the same playbook as Alice in Wonderland
and that movie was a huge success even
though a lot of people say they didn't
like it it still made over a billion
dollars at the box office and I have to
say considering how good a time I had
seeing I was the Great and Powerful I
think that it could do equally well it
doesn't have Johnny Depp in it it has
James Franco not a big box office draw
but I'm hoping that maybe this will put
this will raise James Franco up a level
in the opening I said he was second-rate
quirkiness and I think that he impressed
me I'm upgrading him to first-rate
quirkiness
he was really good this is the best work
I've ever seen James Franco doing a
mainstream film and he's really benefits
from a great script The Wizard isn't
just a character that's trotted out to
do like funny jokes and he's not the Mad
Hatter and Alice in Wonderland
although I did think they tried to have
some depth for that character and it
didn't work out here
The Wizard is a fully realized character
he it goes through an emotional growth a
journey and James Franco pulls it off
spectacular Lee well uh as for the
acting the rest of the acting in the
movie I think zach braff is actually
surprisingly good as the voice of Finley
the monkey and also opening Kansas
scenes the opening scenes in Kansas at
the circus or the fair are really really
wonderful and really impressive I think
they really do a wonderful job setting
the stage for what's to come and
grounding it kind of grounding it in
reality uh but so I thought he was good
at that Joey King is the voice of the of
the little china doll girl was fantastic
I was a great character I was like that
Disney you're going to sell so many
little china doll girls um i think the
weakest parts were the witches not only
from the acting but also i think from
the script point of view Rachel Weitz
and Mila Kunis had surprisingly little
to do that the person came across the
best was the ship up was Michelle
Williams I think she did a really nice
job I think some people you know some
people after the screening felt that
maybe she overreacted a little bit
but I think that if you looked at the
original 1939 version with Glenda I
think that Michelle Williams is trying
to base her performance off of that
which I don't anything wrong with that
and she was very likable I liked her a
lot here too um Rachel White's again not
really much to do she was nice I liked
her costumes and I think she's
definitely pulled off what she was asked
to do and Mila Kunis I think Mila Kunis
is a little bit of unfortunate situation
here because all the whole time I was
watching the movie I was thinking of Meg
from Family Guy because her character
had kinda has a similar situation to Meg
where she's not liked as much as the
other sisters and she's kind of like put
down upon a lot and you know people are
telling her she's stupid and so when she
loses her temper and stuff it just
reminded me a whole lot of Meg from
Family Guy
so that pulled me out a couple times
from the film but she did a nice job I
don't you know I think most people know
who the wicked witches at this point but
I will say not a lot of wicked witch in
the film there's not even that cold fire
tornado shot from the trailer but the
movie was so good that I'm actually not
disappointed in that at all and I can
see I very strongly see the possibility
of a sequel with the Wicked Witch and
when she was on screen I think that the
fish the the prosthetics on the face
didn't work so well but I think that
visually and especially from far away
that worked out great the laughs was
great she looks very cool visually the
movie was just a lot of fun and on that
point with visuals the 3d in this film
is spectacular the opening credits
sequence is just as worth the price of
admission alone and it's some of the
best 3d I've ever seen I would say it's
even better than amazing spider-man's 3d
and I thought that was very good 3d this
is excellent I think you would be doing
yourself a disservice not to see this on
the biggest screen possible which means
IMAX if you can if you can do it and
also in 3d but the very least don't miss
seeing it in 3d it was great so at the
end at the end of the day I would say
that just like the wizard himself as the
great and powerful puts on a spectacular
show with heart so did you see also
great and powerful if so write your
thoughts down below where your
expectations met or exceeded like mine
and of course thank you for coming to be
on the trailer for you know reviews like
this sometimes for myself we also Trey I
do trailer reviews
tamam movie news crew reviews sometimes
and also audience reviews of course so I
hope you'll subscribe thanks for
watching bye